the Saudi and Turkish foreign ministers
have held talks in Istanbul and called
for an end to Israel's war on Gaza the
two ministers once again stressed the
need for an immediate ceasefire Turkish
foreign minister hakan fedan says the
International Community should increase
pressure on Israel to accept a deal cam
CI is in Istanbul following that
meeting Saudi foreign minister F Salin
farhan's visit to turky is actually the
third Minister level visit paid by Saudi
officials within the last two weeks H he
was first received by Turkish president
reab T ardogan in Istanbul and then he
held talks with his Turkish counterpart
hakam fidan of course along with the
bilateral relations and aims and Targets
in economy and politics one of the main
key topics was the war in Gaza two top
diplomats underline that a two-state
solution is necessary based on 1967
borders and independent Palestine is a
must on the way H to peace and permanent
ceasefire and they both emphasize that
more uh Western countries must recognize
Palestine as an independent state while
International Community must pressure
Israel to accept the peace deal that
recently Hamas has accepted Turkish
foreign minister underlined that Hamas
didn't accept this peace R because it
was weak or desperate but that was
necessary uh for uh safety and stability
in the region and they pointed out the
potential uh International risks if
Israel continued its attack
on Gaza of course turkey Syria
normalization was also one of the topics
asked to Turkish foreign minister and he
mentioned that the syri turkey's uh
stance towards the Syrian opposition is
the same uh and uh opposition and
Turkish military fought against isil and
other uh terrorist organizations inside
Syria shoulder-to-shoulder and the
return of the Syrian refugees back to
their home can only happen on the
voluntary basis cam KOLO aljer Isam
let's bring in Hassan barari he's a
professor of international Affairs at
Qatar University he's in the Jordanian
Capital Aman welcome uh Hassan so we we
just heard there the Saudis are in
Turkey trying to collectively push for
an end to the violence fears of course
of a regional spillover are high
especially given tensions between
Hezbollah and Lebanon and Israel how
would you describe the pace of Peace
efforts right
now well it is very important n um that
the the Turkish foreign minister and the
Saudis um see eye to eye on the on what
is happening across the Jordan uh in in
the occupied territories um the
realization is very important that short
of having um two solution end of this
war you know the region is um is going
into a kind of of chaos if I can
say and this is very important because
at the same time uh they call for uh uh
more pressure on Israel uh but also on
Hamas in order to reach a deal uh that
would mitigate the situation and
preclude the spillover effect of this
9month old uh
crisis and has Hassan of course in the
last 24 hours 48 hours in Gaza have been
particularly deadly haven't they I mean
two large strikes one at in almasi in
Western Rafa on Saturday at least 90
people killed there many more people
missing and strike on Gaza City 60
bodies recovered there were talking once
again about High Caliber weapons being
used in densely populated areas as of
course the United States deals with its
own political challenges do you think
that's having an impact on the kind of
pressure America's willing to put on
Israel right
now well I think um the United States is
preoccupied with the internal domestic
issues uh you
know in particular the the field attempt
in on Trump's life H I think they have a
little time to put more pressure on on
the Israelis and at the same time Nao is
trying to appease his Partners in the
government uh by escalating uh by
escalating the the conflict with with
Hamas but at the same time uh he he
knows very well that you know that he
needs to reach a deal because he failed
over the last nine months to liberate
even one hostage I mean they they manage
Maybe three or four but you know the the
the vast majority of the hostages are
still held in in maybe safe areas in in
Gaza and the only way is toate them is
by having to deal with Hamas the
pressure on Netanyahu is is mounting
also internally you know giving the
demonstrations and giving also the
opposition and the collapse of the war
cabin um so he needs to do something but
at the same time you know he's trying to
to balance between the to to appease his
own Coalition partners and also the
demand of of the public there is of
course a very real risk that in a few
months time we will have a very
different president in the White House
how is that being factored in to the
equation by Regional powers do you
think well we didn't have like one
common position here and in this part of
the region you know there are some
players here I'm talking about key
States uh that would be
they're going to be upbeat to see Trump
again um nany is one of them I think
he's trying he's buying time and he's
trying even to cause a kind of electoral
loss on the part of Biden because he
feels more Comfort comfortable with with
Trump but at the same time there's some
Arab regimes here they want to see um
Trump back again because they see eye to
eye with him uh he is more transactional
in terms of his foreign policy H he
wouldn't pay attention to the human
right record for some countries uh so I
think there's a mixed feelings in this
part of the world but at the same time
there are some countries that would feel
threatened by by Trump you know Jordan
is one of them because he Trump is one
of yeah is one of the people looking for
a deal of the century at the expense of
the Palestinian Jordan okay Hassan many
thanks for that Hassan barari professor
of international Affairs at C
University make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer